Video Title: How To Prep For Tech Interviews While Working Full-Time
Video ID: -LBUjaNEHcs
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-LBUjaNEHcs

Take the TIRA for free to find out how your SWE skills stack up and where you're interview-ready so you can focus your interview prep and land a role faster ➡ https://fm.dev/a-life-engineered-TIRA

📈Transform your tech career with my free weekly newsletter -  https://newsletter.alifeengineered.co...
💥 Continue the conversation on my Discord server with like-minded viewers.  The advice section is *chef's kiss* -   / discord  
💥  My YouTube content will always be free of charge but if you'd like to support the channel, I'd be honored if you supported me on Patreon -   / alifeengineered  
🚀  If you want to get promoted fast, I'd love to work with you personally: https://speedruntopromotion.com

The breadth and depth first search part was great 3:20 I just got done studying leet code.

The breadth and depth first search part was great 3:20 I just got done studying leet code.

Bro told a story of painting a wall because in theory stories are good to pass information, even if it wasnt best here. Lack of balls i guess

This is the most underrated career advice channel. Thanks for doing this. Proud to see a fellow Amazonian giving back like this.

What do you do if you got a full time job, 2 babies (0.5, 2.5), and doing your masters degree? :>

Formation is $2500 per month. Come on.

The secret behind these kinds of videos are just to scare you more than ever and throw at you what they are marketing for. Unsubscribing right away

Cant wait for your $35 coconut water energy drink to help me prepare with my $2500 subscription!

You could find a lower paying and/or lower stress job, man.  You broke our hearts with this

You’re still the tech YouTuber we all respect the most, perhaps outside of Rahul Pandey.  You could go back and sustain your lifestyle with some easier software day job

Wait did you also just lie about the fact that you’re still at Amazon?  We all felt for you when you quit

Thank you for this series of videos.It makes real sense.We often try to remember the wheel ourselves and never take a few moments just to listen to somebody who's got something good to say and can save us a lot of time and effort

oh my god the overreactions to a sponsor are hilarious. do me a favor and dont listen to the rest of the video please. stop applying while youre at it for me

fk this field, i'm out

Steve, I really enjoy your videos and you were one of the few folks on Youtube who didn't peddle a course or some scammy site. This is new and I was a bit taken aback, mainly because I found your emphasis on navigating your career and soft skill alignment more useful as there are many other youtubers like neetcode for example from whom I can get lc prep from. This video felt like a sponsored message rather than a simple transaction of my attention for your time.

Got AI Sora already, still go for Tech interview.

I used to be Steve’s admirer, but now it feels like Steve is a sellout at this point. Formation doesn’t work for everyone (look it up, you’ll see tons of bad reviews), and costs a decent amount of money. Thanks, but no thanks. Your advice is garbage

I had a terrible experience with Formation. Not worth $20/m… but they charge $2500/m. I’m a Staff SWE with 10+ years and can easily afford this… it’s just not worth the price given the amount of high quality services already out there.

For suggesting this website or your sponsor, I am unsubscribing you. You also changed like everyone else

Is there a version of this for someone who studied CS or is self-taught but has had to work in non-technical roles due to circumstances such as the recent economic climate?

You would think that someone who worked so long at Amazon wouldn't need to sellout so hard. Formation is a scam, you don't need to pay $2500 a month to figure out what to learn for Leetcode, System Design and behavioural interviews. Might as well just take PTO at your job for a few weeks to study or just quit your job and start studying if you don't have time. There are literally free guides on Reddit, Youtube, TeamBlind and etc. If you need to be handheld through interview prep through a service like formation and can't find free guides online or self learn through courses which would cost no more than like $200 in total then this line of work probably isn't for you anyways. Him trying to justify the sponsor this whole time is hilarious scummy. Unsubscribing.

Stay away from drama-filled comments (do I?) - here's a takeaway from the video:

- Focus on identifying and targeting your weakest areas.
    + Be intentional about preparing for things you tend to overlook.
    + Avoid being overly thorough during interview preparation.
- Find overlap between your work tasks and interview preparation.
- Plan backward from your interview day (right-to-left planning).

Action plan:
- Allocate 3 months for interview preparation.
- Spend 5 days pinpointing where to direct your attention.
- Break down preparation into manageable tasks.
- Set clear and achievable milestones.
- Anticipate and prepare for potential conflicts that could disrupt your plan.

Where and how does leetcode intersect with my daily tickets on Jira??😅

Change my mind: 
The tech prep interview industry is just like the weight loss industry.
It attracts sell outs, scammers, and a lot of promises. Truth is, we all know the recipe for success is simple: put in the work. Everyone is looking for a shortcut or cheat code so they seek out fake gurus and mentors that only want to sell their snake oil.  Hey Steve, don't sell us oil.

Hey thanks for the great content. I have a question, when you said plan from right to left and not over index in coding, does this only apply if you make it to onsite stage. Before getting to onsite stage you’re mostly evaluated on coding/problem solving so isn’t it better to over index a bit on coding initially until we get to the onsite stage before balancing out preparation.

Every year set asside a month for revising data structures and algorithms
ML interviews are tricky - because there are so many subfield specialities. If you learn 2000 techniques it becomes a blur

Perfect timing. Couldn’t remember why I was learning Ancient Greek !!!

I am a Lead Data Scientist and wish to move out of data science and get back into Software Engineering. I have 10 years of experience (with 3 years in software engineering, and 7 years in Data Science). Should I even try to breakout or stay in data science? Is it too late for me to think about SWE?

I would request you to add moments in your video, so I can skip the content if I’m not worried about that portion😊

Steve, you might want to improve the audio quality :)

was the previous video about way to promotion deleted?

We really loved you, man.  We trusted you, too.  It's not too late to turn it back around

Answer: cut out TONS of the more useless activities you end up cluttering your day with/ getting distracted by

I personally felt hurt when you said learn javascript and frameworks but the code and the tool is Swift and xcode from 2:55 to 2:57. Please dont hurt the friendly iOS Community. We exist.

Half ur vid is an add. Its not information its sponsored content dont u hav any shame?

Even with 4+ years of experience as a Linux system administrator, I can't get to the interview. My resume is honestly "good". No buzz words straight facts with numbers and all that good stuff bachelor's degree etc. BUT still not inviting me for an interview for over a month now. I was just looking for better company with better pay and room to grow. All I'm saying is about the Job market guys. The market dictates how fast or slow you get a job. But eventually, you will get a job I promise))

Hey steve, dont worry about the low performers in the comments. They dont even know your audience isnt them. Good s#%t in this video.

Joining interview loops at your company helps a lot too

Great video with actionable tips Steve! Also, from Dijkstra's Algorithm to secret of life - everything roots back to the ancient Greek wisdom 🙏

Let me fix that intro for you . “ So you have a decent job. You’re performing well. However you feel that you are capable of more , and the 5% raise you got this year doesn’t cover inflation…”

Long time follower here: Love the work you do. Just a bit of advice, you can be choosy with your sponsors to continue your image of wholesome tech prep person. Trust me, I know the pressure to make income, but you already have grown an account organically in record time. You can make a decent income from YT shorts with your subscribers and view count. There's no reason to sacrifice your long term vision for short term gain. You'll be fine. You have a wife and other revenues of income. And with your career, you should have a substantial safety net. Give yourself time.

@steve - most interview prep platforms are garbage and you should not endorse them. You can make money by providing 1:1 or 1:many career advice because that’s what you did at Amazon and that’s what you said you love doing.

Your videos are gems Steve… just please go buy some chapstick before the next one 😂❤

shout out neetcode!

I think the tip about focusing on items at work that are related to interviewing, while well intentioned, is out of touch. Out of all the tips to give, it has such low potential for leverage. 

You have three main interviews to prepare for. Coding questions have very little to do with how you code at work, since it is mostly algorithms rather than software engineering problems. System design is different in interviews because you are probably working on one kind of product with one kind of design. Yet theres tons of different system designs out there you should study for an interview, and the criteria you will be judged upon are likely to be different anyways. Focusing too much on applying your lessons learned from the job to an interview might be like using a hammer to screw in a screw. Lastly the behavioral. Ive never had a performance review where the criteria for success was the same as that in an interview. Plus it is a vastly different audience with different priorities than your company. So how is it really practicing? 

To me its like doing well in high school then taking the SAT. Sure if you do well in high school, it will probably help, but the criteria for success is so different in the SAT that you cannot leverage your skillset for success. You just need to study the SAT

This is your best video thus far Steve

Spot on.

This sounds like very good advice, the main problem for me is that I cant get any interviews to begin with. I don't think I'm going about applying wrong, I'm applying to roles I fit the experiance level for, tailoring my resume, and applying with referrals, but i still just get rejections.

Your intro was on point in what I am feeling right now, except for the pay, the pay is good in my current job but I also want a higher pay.

Do you really think everyone here earns similarly to principals from Amazon to afford the platform that charges $2500 per month?

Sellout

A lot of extra work can save you a little planning. 

Planning isn't fun, neither is trying to pick a date / set a goal. This same advice is given for investing, paying off debt, getting married, and most other important things. 

The call out to avoid working on your biggest weakness is good. Long term improvement on weakness is good, but in the short term you can't sacrifice the whole package like that.

I understand the need to take sponsorships, however I'm super disappointed to see in-line style sponsorship on this content. Steve's content is soured by in-line ads, especially the endorsed ones ("I use this product" -type ads). I feel like the sponsorship in the beginning or at the end would have been much more appropriate, not even considering how unrelatable the product is in the first place

sad to see this guy turning into a sellout, these tech youtubers cant seem to help themselves... this one doesn't even have the excuse of needing a sponsorship from snake oil like formation

Hi Steve, awesome content

This is the modern day equivalent of snake oil.

Working RTL sounds great. If you can even plan. If you’re just laid off and need something asap, what is best? Some ppl aren’t even getting past ATS systems to have a real interview, no planning can combat that. Patient planning, and being ready. Some ppl don’t have the luxury of time like that.

There is no link to your formation offer in the description.

Anyone else notice that formation costs $2500 per month?!

Great timing

bro is the only one advanced in linked lists

dudes a sellout.

Hey uncle Steve. This is timely

Exact exact situation your videos are like me thinking out loud keep up the great work

Exactly the situation I’m in, thanks Steve!

