Video Title: How To Find A Tech Job In An Impossible Market (ex-Amazon Principal Engineer)
Video ID: 557a30Ss_44
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=557a30Ss_44

💡 To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit http://www.brilliant.org/alifeengineered. You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.

💥 Continue the conversation on my Discord server with like-minded viewers.  The advice section is **chef's kiss** - https://discord.gg/HFVMbQgRJJ
📈Transform your tech career with my free weekly newsletter -  https://newsletter.alifeengineered.com/

Great video! Thanks for taking imagery of both women and men.

Do you really believe in me? I’ve done nothing, and all my projects are crap.

I found this very helpful, thank you :)

Some insights I got out of this video:

1. Test with different approaches to finding a new tech job

2. Make high-leverage side projects (build in public, showcase your projects)

(--> I wonder if a youtube channel that isn't related to SWE counts for showcasing the non-technical aspect of one's personality? I do have a separate coding blog though)


3. Keep coding skills sharp, don't delay on interviewing, be ready to interview within a week of callback (This is something I struggle with because for my previous jobs, I haven't had any technical interviews)



4. Don't wait for the right time, get started, and don't get distracted by the minutiae of life


5. Believe in yourself, don't give up

What a shit field this is. We have to prepare to PASS an interview for a job that we have been doing SUCCESSFULLY for  SEVERAL years. Omg.

you trained thousands on how to assess technical talent? right

bro quit at the perfect time lol

Excellent advice across the board!

Some notes I'va taken from the vid:
1.  Be intentional with how much time you spend applying and preparing I’m in a phase of hard to land an interview, so I have to spend more time trying to get an interview. 
2. You need your interview skills to be ready, never push off an interview The rule of thumb is you’re ready for an interview in a week of notice(don’t swing to the other side, you still need abundant time finding a job) 
3. Vary your approach if you aren’t getting callbacks. 
4. Side project should be high leveraged Presentable, time-boxed(finighable in a month), learn on big thing from the project, deepen your skills instead of broadening, document your project & build in public, work on more on ur README

5. Look for adjacent positions(detouring) - tester - support engineer - project manager - site reliability engineer - systems develop  Evaluate all opportunities. It’s better to have a job soaking in as much information as possible getting exposed to the sw dev life cycle at a proper company. Taking a detour is another way to knock on more doors.

Thank you so much for the helpful insights, Steve!

So helpful! OMG, just subscribed.

Loving the content, highly motivating!!!

Thanks Steve for yet again an encouraging and full of useful tips video

1. (2 phases: getting an interview and preparation for an interview) Be intentional with how much time you spend applying and preparing. Prepare in parallel with looking for a job. Be ready for an interview within a week's notice, otherwise pay more attention to preparation 
2. Approach differently for job search. Vary your approach if you aren't getting callbacks. 
3. Make your side-projects high-leverage. It needs to be presentable. (artefacts). It needs to be time-boxed. Learn one big thing from the project. Document your project and learning by building in public. 
4. Don't wait to start finding a new job. Get started. Get started. Get started. Get started. Get started, now! 
5. - 
6. Believe. Get Your head right

Tbh there is only one way: become the best at leetcode, be Chinese and that's it

Transform your social media presence with *Phlanx's caption generator* . It creates captivating captions that not only reflect your brand’s identity but also connect with your audience on a deeper level.

Thanks for sharing those great tips! I also wanted to mention an amazing Chrome extension, F1 Hire. It delves into job descriptions and saves job seekers a lot of time. It excels in profile matching and lets you compare your resume with job details on the same screen to enhance your resume. Highly recommended!

Nice Tudor Black Bay 54.

Hi 👋🏽. 
I'm interested in working at Amazon Japan. I have connections at Amazon UK and Spain. Can I use a referral from someone at Amazon Spain to apply for a position in Japan?

You are straight to the point, love your content

if he knew how to make you get a tech job. He wouldn't be on youtube. Don't fall for these scams.

Thank you very much for your evidence based, precisely exposited content. Much appreciated. 

My question is only tangentially related to the video, but regardless may I ask, for a computer and science literate person, do think thoroughly going through the Odin Project is wise way of starting my journey to becoming a paid developer?

Thanks man, that was a great video

But what about burnout, you do know at the end of the day we are humans? How to deal with anxiety and stress ? Continue to leetcode or continue to work on side project? Sure … but for how long ? 

Thank you for the video, but it’s just any average video out there.

Thank you

Wow, Support Eng to SDE in AWS here myself. "Better job than no job", exactly, also I gave myself a timeline to transition to SDE while in support role, and I did it

Thank you for taking the time to make this video. I'm currently struggling to get to the next level and aim for big tech. It's tips like this that keep me going.

Whatever. Everybody else is doing all six, or the other six, or this, that, and some other gimmick. Here's the thing.....you should probably forget about the tech realm for a while and look for meaningful employment in other sectors. That's what I did. I'm 100% in outside sales, working for a publicly traded company,  remote. It's a grind but the money and benefits are great.  You just grind it out for four hours a day! Expand your horizons a bit because your past might not necessarily be your future. Be nimble.

always took me few week to be prepare for interview. tech interview is always like going back to school for me. It's not even about what i did on my previous jobs.

Can we get timestamps?

Just quit a tech job due to poor treatment, deliberately caused work-life imbalance and laughable wages. I know its going to be difficult to get a job anywhere, but if I could at least get something braindead like in food/drink service, retail and other store clerk, property cleaning or maintenance etc.. I would be making MORE money than the tech job, no cap. I would also be hourly and the company would be forced to pay me overtime or try to salarize me to which I say no thanks. I would then have free time to learn and earn those certs that are 100% necessary unless you know someone on the inside or have +100 charisma. I am working on 2 courses provided by Coursera, Google Project Management: Professional Certificate and Computer Science: Programming with a Purpose
by Princeton University(no cert).

❤❤

Intense clip, A Life Engineered. I smashed that thumbs up button on your video. Keep the wonderful work. Looking forward to see more posts from you.

Top level content from a real guy. But better if you avoid using ex-amazon in the title 😊 caz there was a guy we all know n later became a joke

Loving the side jokes. Keep it up!

Just had 4 beers, cant start it now. Gotta be tomorrow.

I luv this

What impossible market? I was laid off in Jan and found a new job in a month. Then 4 months later project was cancelled and i found a new job in a week. I regret watching these fear mongering videos

Great contents，thank you❤

Expert advice. This is not your traditional generic bs other YouTubers are doing.

Not sure how universally applicable it is but sounds like a good advice. Nice video! Question about Brilliant - do their courses really go deep enough into subjects? I thought they position themselves as an app to "learn on the go" and I think many science areas require long and deep dives. It always seemed like they focus on "pop science" similar to what you can get from YouTube shorts but with interactive examples to play with. Did they change that paradigm since?

Haha, grindr for your pets, masterclass Steve

The bar has been raised,it’s the survival of the fittest

Thank god I have a job now, it’s low paying though, $50/hr contractor and can implement pretty much everything. But yeah it’s simply bad ROI to even apply now if you have a job. 0 responses.

It's inspiring that you went from support engineer all the way to principal engineer. Nice content!

4:13 Yeah, I guess but not everyone has 30+ years of experience at Amazon with friends in high places.

1:12 This is something that I'm experiencing, but I wonder why this is the case. I'll have periods of no contact followed by periods of companies reaching out

Quick summary: do leetcode as much as you can.

Totally unrelated but Love that BB54.

Sir i completed btech in july 2023, since then i am unemployed and gap is increasing,  i am learning different skills but am not in the eligibility criteria of most of the companies here in india,  sir please suggest what to do about the increasing gap

Grindrr for pets 🤣🤣🤣

This was a solid waste of 15 minuets. Done watching these videos.

So so good video. I am a blockchain developer in VietNam. Not really related but you are from Vietnam, right?

13:45 That was great!!! HA!! I'm dead ☠️.

@13:42 I died

Needed this. Thank you Steve. Much love

I really resonated with that comment about not wasting time learning all of the fundamentals before starting interview prep. I'm trying to get a Data Science/ML job in big tech whilst working as a Data scientist in another company and I find myself wasting time on courses on stats and ML which are thigns I already have a firm understanding of.

I'm now just going to start just answering interview questions then use that to cover the areas I don't know, vs waiting to learn everything first then do interview prep. Thank you Steve!

Any chance you can do/recommend a past video for people later in their career thinking of pivoting away from software engineering? Sadly I'm one of those people without the network of folks to talk pros and cons with of pivoting to something like cyber, technical program management  or engineering management

Watching your videos really feels like having a boss that really cares about your future and is willing to express his wisdom for your growth. God bless you.

Best tips ever, thanks for sharing!

I'm waiting for my phone interview feedback for SDE II, here's hoping 🤞🤞

first

