Video Title: How To Get Up To Speed On A New Team IMPOSSIBLY FAST
Video ID: nlRNc2YbwR4
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nlRNc2YbwR4

Thank you Sir

Sounds like pretty useless advice and documents

What if the list is growing up 😢

Did you have a copy we can view? Also if their was a link I didn’t see it I’m ok shorts

U r incredible. Some of the best content on YouTube I’ve encountered. High quality and very well thought out! Please keep doing what ur doing.

This is really cool as a high level idea

Literally told anybody who ever trained me. No company ever does this.

That is great advice. I would maybe add a fourth row to each organisation that contains the most important people involved. What do you think?

Oh man this vid would have been ultra useful about 6 months ago. Will bookmark for the next time.

Wish there was a way to save shorts!!

Amazing !!

I've been trying to find this video again, but forgot it was a short and couldn't quickly.find it on your channel . Could be a great longer video! Thanks as always for the invaluable advice!!

Could you make a full video on this with examples that have more context for someone starting in a software development role?

Dossier : confluence!

How do we pronounce Steve's last name?  Wen?  When ?  Win?  Hwin?

As an undergrad researcher in virology which has nothing to do at all with engineering I still found this info incredibly useful I wish I had learned it sooner. Joining any STEM related team can be super difficult at first especially because there’s a whole bunch of jargon and techniques you’ve never heard of or if you have you’ve never seen them used in the context that they’re being described. All and all it’s pretty easy to get lost, overwhelmed, and at times feel stupid because you don’t know as much as your more experienced colleagues but once you latch on properly it gets better and pretty soon you’ll be talking like the rest of them and contributing to the team rather than constantly asking questions or feel like a burden.

Irony  is he never changed a company and giving advices for ramping up when you change an organisation

We love loops. Now just make it slightly 'novel' on each iteration, and you've successfully recreated the model of the universe itself. (just as we've done a million times already).

🙌

Could you make a maybe quick video 4-5min long I guess. Basically further detailing this dossier concept.

No one seems to notice but nice wrap-around!

Lol EC2 is killing me rn, let's see if this helps 😢

That's why he is in Amazon and I'm not

How is it that you have 80k subs and 1 video

Because....

You need a haircut

Thanks! Just in time, I start a new job in 3 days!!

Nice first reel 🎉 long time subscriber says hi 👋

Hi Steve, could you do a video about a system design interview for a senior position. That'd be great coming from someone with your experience. 
Thanks

Just joined AWS and my ‘acronyms’ doc is up to 40+ entries after one week. I’ve been in some jargon-heavy companies, but AWS utilizes jargon at an unbelievable rate.

Thank you. Always happy to learn from the principal!

Love this Steve! Well done!!

I am exactly overwhelmed by those things! I joined a new company as a new grad from school, and it has been almost 3 weeks, but I am still not contributing! It is really helpful, but wish the video can be longer tho! T-T

Just to clarify, one table has all of your immediate team’s entire terminology, concepts and contexts as their own buckets? I would love a part 2 detailing how to efficiently write notes for the concepts and contexts sections

Sometimes it's about specific people who just wont change, and it can affect regular words. Like, I had a manager who used sort and filter interchangeably. Moral: even if your question seems oddly dumb, better ask it asap.

Was this ever covered in a full video?

The timing of this couldn’t be better. I was actually looking for template like this. Book Recommendation for folks reading this comment - read First 90 Days generic and good callouts on dos and don’t s

Super helpful! I'm a mid level engineer who just joined a new company and your advice has been invaluable

