Video Title: The Secret Skill Every Tech Leader Possesses
Video ID: uUKAVfIahCY
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUKAVfIahCY

Love your Shannon Lee shirt!  Hiring manager interview this week.

Wait a minute… Steve… are you a DJ????

Force Multiplier until you are Map-Reduced.

Underrated channel. This REALLY opened my eyes. Currently, I am IC - and want to keep it that way -, but this is a lot different than the way I approach to "coach" junior coworkers. Also now I learned there's a new word for it "teach them critical awareness". My CTO really lacks that.

"I can't un see the colour of the energy people give off"

This resonates with me greatly.

Excellent channel thank you!!!

Great advice, I am just wondering when we are going to get a DJ mix?

abstract corpobabble...

I didnt expect you meant actual mushrooms in your anecdote lol. My intial expectation was that your college student friend possessed a different kind of mushroom

Your videos have really helped me get a new perspective about some things. Thank you, and God bless you 🙏.

Are you Vietnamese, Steve?  If so, that's awesome!  I'd love to show my nephew that there are Viets working for Amazon and he can do it, too.  :)

When are your office hours? I would like to participate in one!

Nice T-shirt! Steve!

Love your sage wisdom

That shirts so cool

I needed this. Thanks

With that insight from another video, where he explained that some questions look like situational problems, but they're behavioral in fact, already shows he is principal

Analogies aside, I still don't get what to "see" or be aware of. Project priority? Communication effectiveness? What key concept could there be missing w/o requiring better technical or organizational understanding? Coz those understanding differ from project to project and they come from studying and experiences not substitutable.

Thank you sir

Less formal here, good.

Often times growing others don’t come with recognition because many of the lower level engineers don’t want to acknowledge the help.  They often want to take ALL the credit,  So I avoid wasting my time unless they demonstrate humility and baseline level of respect.  I find that helping folks outside my team is often more productive for me than helping people on my own team.  I imagine the stack ranking / promo curve / etc probably has something to do with this phenomena.

People call me the fungi of the Pacific Northwest.

Thanks for the video, Steve! A little deeper information on that motorcycle comment of yours. We don't wave at one another but rather "peace sign" each other. It's a sort of salute meaning "two wheels on the ground" 🏍

Thanks Steve! Will we ever hear some electronic music, or are those just props and toys? Hahaha!

Looks like you have help to get enough time to make videos and be a PE @Amazon. 
Some teams are chill and PE's usually don't have much real work to be done after initial effort.

Most so called Tech leaders do not do any of this and just manage up while making sure they get the credit of initiatives below them.

You ask why, coz its too hard and only 10% or so do it while getting no real recognition for it.

Steve is saying this as its good for YouTube and idealistic things we all like to hear.

Software industry as a whole tends towards people who lack soft skills and get promoted based on a flawed promo process or being there at the right time.

Look at Steve, they rose to PE status due to joining so early.Its 10x harder for another PE to come from outside.

In essence, Steve inside Amazon would reject Steve looking to become a PE today and that explains how tech hiring works.

I'm crying about the "if you're my wife..." 😂

All your videos are gems - wish I had a mentor like you! 

I see the turntables behind you… what kind of music do you dj?

I think you are trying to convey something important, but it would really help to have a less-compressed version of this with more context and examples of how you've done these things.

May I ask where you got the Japanese whiskey on the shelf?

Love the Bruce Lee DJing tshirt! haha =D

Nice whiskey collection lol

I don't know about motor cyclists, but Tesla drivers also waive at each other when they pass.

You make Amazon more reputable in my mind now because of their association with you. Like I even like Jeff more now. And I've always loved Jeff

you're literally my favourite after the 0:23 mark 😂😂😂 ahh (sigh) girls are the best 

Hi Steve!  I'm a huge fan of your channel, and you're one of many inspirations of mine to start my own!  Feel free to take a look: I'd love to collaborate with you at some point in the future!

Hi Steve, I have watched all your videos and thanks a lot for the content and the time to share you knowledge and advices. I have one question and I really hope you can answer :).I am ML research scientist (It is my title), I did a phd in information retrieval and recommendation systems. I was not a super star PhD student, I was average. Them after my PhD, i was hired as AI specialist at Airbus. I have been in the company for 5 years now, I have spend my time doing things  a lot of things (PM work, Roadmap, build project, managing subcontracting and also some research (not that much) on NLP topics. The nature of my work, is not the same than any applied scientist or MLE in big tech. I had prepared for MLE interviews and failed the system design rounds as I don't design systems and we don't have systems in production or at scale. I have spend time reading books and practicing mocks but I feel like without a real experience I can't pass the interview. I really don't know what to do! And all the recruiter are proposing to interview for senior roles as I have a PhD + 5 yoe. From your experience, how I can get that experience? I would be happy to get even a entry or mid-level role, my priority is learning. Thanks a lot in advance for your reply. :)

Love the thumb nail.

Hey man, I really appreciate your content. Can you please make a video on what is expected from each level of engineer l4-l8 and how to succeed at your level?

Hello Steve, This channel focuses on advising people currently on mid to senior level in their tech career. Could you make a video on junior Devs and entry level engineering roles, what is your general career advice to SDE1 folks? Please do find time to make video on this

You've got a lot of fine wine and some music stuff and everything. Amazon is giving you a lot of time. Then why does that same company have such a bad reputation for unreasonably working their employees too much? I'll ask this in every one of your videos till you answer.

I would love some of those mushrooms you had in college. Anyways, another great video! Thanks for the insight!

When are we gonna open that Yamazaki 18 though!

hey steeeve

This is a great channel and concept. I really hope you stick with it and keep growing your content. 1 video a week please!!! 🤩 but once every 2 weeks is also ok. Since the value of your content will only be obvious to those developers making the transition to become a senior and those who have already made the transition, it may take a while for your channel to gain steam, but please keep going! 

I would love for you to grow your content also by doing some interviews or small group discussions with other tech people. Some possible topics would be interviewing a non technical, mba trained manager and discussing how their world view differs from a cs grad developer who got promoted into leadership , and what we can learn from each other. Another one would be what are the soft skills that a developer needs to acquire in order to be successful as a senior, and how do you practice to get those skills?

Looking forward to seeing your future growth!

Great one!

I have always taken you advice seriously and did perform well on my amazon Sr SDE interviews, but I got rejected back to back and recently they gave me a feedback for the first time after onsite interview. They said I did good in LPs + behavioural and not competent at coading and low level design, what  would you advise me

Nice video! How many reports do you think a software engineer can reasonably handle before diminishing returns kick in? I'm finding that three is the point at which I'm stalling, but I can't imagine that we can build a pyramid of a ternary tree of software engineers as our tech team!

Hey Steve, Ignacio from PTYA here! Really enjoying your advice and video editing skills! Specially your camera angle changes. I’m getting a lot of inspiration from your content. Keep at it!

I love you now focus on your whisky selection!

Convert unknown unknowns into known unknowns. Great advice :)

Good stuff! I think it would be great to get a video with examples where you have helped people grow. How did you identify the area? Did you approach the person, or did they approach you? Did you schedule a meeting so you can show how to demonstrate some good principles, or do you generally have 1:1 with people to help them out? 

I have heard this from my manager before, and I mentor and work 1:1 with a lot of people, mostly in technical things, but still feel like I'm not doing enough

Great piece of advice, and an actionable one too.

Thanks Steve for another great video! Is that Understanding Analysis (Stephen Abbott) on your bookshelf? Awesome book!

Great video -- looking forward to more!

This guy is a lemming and stooge.

Thank you for the insight. I was wondering, how do you manage work life balance? Any tips and suggestions would be appreciated.

I think this is the first video in which part of your bookshelf is visible. Two books that stand out: domain driven design and clean code. Good stuff Steve

Digged the intro: first for finally knowing your name and, second, bc you made me laugh with the wife part. 😆

That is actually not hot air.

This is too abstract for me. I get the idea of growing others and letting “see it”, but how? How do you train them? How do you point out things to “see”?

"And has a full time job"
-I bet he hasent reached 100k subs yet
(scrolls down)
-yep...(see you at the 100k why I quit my job video)

Once i've seen your turn tables and mixers, I cant unsee it. What kind of music do you mix? Do u upload them?

Hey Steve, thank you very much for your valuable insights.

A bit off-topic to this video, but I couldn't help notice the bookshelf behind you.
Would you consider making a video of books that you found most influential to your technical or interpersonal growth?
Much appreciated.

Good stuff! Question: How DO you have time to make youtube videos and have a full time job?

How do you recommend L6 engineers manage their time, if they’re the only L6 on the team?

What are the most important aspects of an incoming L6 that helps them make an immediate, lasting impact?

Great video! Also could you recommend any books for mid-level engineers? Thanks! :)

This is a severely underrated channel. Also love your…. Steeevveee

office hour qns: is being architect expected for very senior / tech lead level ? what's the benefit of having architect title than staying as IC (without architect title).

Your insights are absolute gems! I used to think that a genius software engineer could solve all the business problems and make a successful product, but as it turns out, the ability to improve those around them matters a whole lot. Top talent in leadership scales and multiplies a team's output by magnitudes more.

Steeeeeve

You described an abillity of an old mentor of mine has.  these kinds of lessons or stories are worth comming back for.

FIRST!!!! i am the first

Your content has been helping me a lot! How do I capture the data where I can show during mid year contribution for how I grew others?

